The objective of the game is to bankrupt all opponents, though most gamesplayed with family and friends
end when it is apparent that someone willwin.

A typical game of MONOPOLYR©uses the following items:
* game board
* dice
* token for players (11 official MONOPOLYR©ones)
* 32 houses
* 12 hotels
* 16 Chance cards
* 16 Community Chest cards
* property deeds for each of the 22 MONOPOLYR©properties
* $15140 in MONOPOLYR©money

The Chance and Community Chest cards are placed face down on the gameboard, and a player must pick 
one of the cards when he lands on the Chanceor the Community Chest game squares.  Each player is 
given $1500 to be-gin the game.  All remaining money, game piece, houses, hotels, and deedsof  unsold  
property  go  to  the  Bank.    The  Bank  collects  all  taxes,  fines,loans,  and  interest.
The  Bank  never  goes  ‘broke.’   If  the  Bank  runs  outof MONOPOLYR©money, then more can 
be issued (see fun fact above).

Players begin on the Go square, roll two dice, and advance as many steps as dots displayed on the 
two dice.  A player can buy any property, utility, or  railroad  that  isn’t  already  owned  by  
another  player,  or  must  to  draw Chance/Community  Chest  cards,  pay  rent,  fines,  or  go  
to  Jail  as  dictated by the square he lands on.  If a player throws a double, then he moves 
his token the number of steps, is subject to whatever privileges or penalties of the square  
he lands on, and then tosses the dice again. If a player tossesthree doubles in a single turn, 
he must go to Jail.

Landing on the Jail square is just ‘visiting Jail’, while landing on the ‘Go to Jail’ square, 
drawing a ‘Go to Jail’ card, and tossing doubles 3 times during a turn are actual Jail sentences.  
Any Jail term lasts 3 turns. A player tosses dice at each turn, and if he tosses a double, then 
he is free to get out of jail and advances the number of steps as his double shows. That player 
does not take another turn. A player gets out of Jail if he has a ‘Get out of Jail Free’ card, or 
if another player is willing to sell him a ‘Get out of Jail Free’ card at a negotiated price, or 
if the player pays a $50 fine.
